**Cityscapes (5000 Images)** is a dataset for instance segmentation, object detection, and semantic segmentation tasks. It is used in the automotive industry. 

The dataset consists of 5000 images with 287540 labeled objects belonging to 40 different classes including *ego vehicle*, *out of roi*, *static*, and other: *pole*, *building*, *road*, *vegetation*, *car*, *sidewalk*, *traffic sign*, *sky*, *person*, *license plate*, *terrain*, *traffic light*, *bicycle*, *rectification border*, *dynamic*, *fence*, *ground*, *rider*, *wall*, *cargroup*, *parking*, *bicyclegroup*, *motorcycle*, *persongroup*, *truck*, *bus*, *polegroup*, *bridge*, *train*, *rail track*, *trailer*, *caravan*, *tunnel*, *guard rail*, *ridergroup*, *motorcyclegroup*, and *truckgroup*.

Images in the Cityscapes dataset have pixel-level instance segmentation annotations. Due to the nature of the instance segmentation task, it can be automatically transformed into a semantic segmentation (only one mask for every class) or object detection (bounding boxes for every object) tasks. All images are labeled (i.e. with annotations). There are 3 splits in the dataset: *test* (1525 images), *train* (2975 images), and *val* (500 images). Alternatively, the dataset could be split into 27 cities: ***jena*** (119 images), ***krefeld*** (99 images), ***monchengladbach*** (94 images), ***strasbourg*** (365 images), ***zurich*** (122 images), ***stuttgart*** (196 images), ***tubingen*** (144 images), ***ulm*** (95 images), ***hanover*** (196 images), ***bremen*** (316 images), ***cologne*** (154 images), ***lindau*** (59 images), ***munich*** (398 images), ***bochum*** (96 images), ***weimar*** (142 images), ***darmstadt*** (85 images), ***hamburg*** (248 images), ***berlin*** (544 images), ***bielefeld*** (181 images), ***bonn*** (46 images), ***leverkusen*** (58 images), ***frankfurt*** (267 images), ***erfurt*** (109 images), ***aachen*** (174 images), ***mainz*** (298 images), ***munster*** (174 images), and ***dusseldorf*** (221 images). The dataset was released in 2016 by the Daimler AG R&D, Germany, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Germany, and TU Darmstadt Visual Inference Group, Germany.

Here is the visualized example grid with animated annotations:

[animated grid](https://github.com/dataset-ninja/cityscapes/raw/main/visualizations/horizontal_grid.webm)
